# Surveys of Kentucky pharmacists and physicians about ADF practices
## What this study adds
This study will provide information on key factors that influence ADF prescribing and dispensing to better understand the context of ADF utilization in clinical practice.

### Background
In the clinical setting, decisions by physicians and other prescribers directly impact who is issued a prescription for an ADF opioid versus traditional formulations. At the pharmacy, patient selection intersects with practical limitations of health insurance reimbursement and state laws, including an unknown extent of therapeutic substitution of non-ADF opioids for traditional opioids. These structural factors cumulate in determining the nature of population exposure to ADFs; understanding the pathways and barriers to ADF utilization are important for comparator selection, as well as policy development.

### Methods
We will conduct two surveys in Kentucky, one among prescribers and one among pharmacists, providing insight into actual clinical practice regarding ADFs. This information will assist FDA in interpreting data on utilization patterns of ADFs. Both surveys will be conducted electronically using REDCap, a secure web application for building and managing online surveys and databases available at the University of Kentucky, and will be pre-tested and revised prior to fielding. 
 
The first survey, of all KY physician licensees, will focus on understanding the factors that influence ADF prescribing. The survey will be developed in conjunction with the KY Medical Association to ensure content validity and will be fielded in collaboration with the KY Board of Medical Licensure to increase participation. Dr. Freeman has longstanding relationships with both organizations and each have indicated support for the proposed collaborations. Anticipated sections of the survey include: 1) demographic and professional characteristics, including practice setting and medical specialty; 2) knowledge and perceptions of ADF products, including exposure to REMS education; 3) ADF prescribing experience, including frequency of ADF prescribing and factors that impact prescribing decisions such as patient history consideration, risk stratification, financial considerations, patient preference, etc.; and 4) communication with third-party payers and pharmacists regarding prior authorizations and prescription substitutions with traditional opioid formulations. Proposed sections can be modified with input from FDA.
 
The second survey, of all KY pharmacist licensees, will focus on understanding the factors that influence ADF dispensing. The survey will be developed in conjunction with the KY Pharmacists Association and fielded in collaboration with the Kentucky Board of Pharmacy. Anticipated sections of the survey include: 1) demographic and professional characteristics, including practice setting; 2) knowledge and perceptions of ADF products;  3) ADF dispensing experience, including frequency of ADF dispensing and ADF substitution, and factors that impact dispensing decisions such as pharmacy inventory, patient preference, insurance formularies, etc.; 4) communication with third party payers and prescribers regarding prior authorizations and ADF substitution; 5) derivation of days supply and understanding of how days supply is utilized by the KY PMP (e.g., for calculation of morphine equivalents and overlapping prescriptions). Information gleaned from the pharmacist survey will be used to inform a validation study of days supply.
 
The survey methodology will be the same for both groups of respondents. An email containing a cover letter with an explanation of the study and a link to the electronic survey will be sent via the respective licensure board lists; no identifying information or linkages to either respondent email addresses or IP addresses will be recorded with survey responses. Inducements for participation will be considered. A reminder email will be sent 1 week following the initial survey invitation, and a final reminder will be distributed via email 2 weeks following initial contact. Two weeks after the final email reminder, the survey link will be deactivated and data collection stopped. A recent similar survey (Goodin, Fallin-Bennett et al. 2018) of licensed Kentucky pharmacists conducted in this manner elicited a response proportion of 27.3% (1,282 out of 4,699 practicing Kentucky pharmacists), but we expect that backing by KY medical societies and FDA might lead to higher responses; we will also explore ways to increase participation. While this response proportion may appear low, it is actually considerably higher than other large surveys of clinicians, and resulted in larger sample sizes than are commonly used in other physician behavior surveillance studies. For example, an opioid survey sent to 70,000 members of the American Medical Association nationwide resulted in only 566 responses (Jahr, Bergese et al. 2017). For these reasons, we propose to leverage state medical licensure board and professional society support to obtain more representative data than more general clinical population sampling methods.

Response binary survey data will be summarized as frequencies (percentages) with the total number of respondents for each survey item as the unit of analysis. Survey response analysis will be stratified by practice type and setting whenever possible. Continuous survey data will be summarized using means (standard deviation) or medians (interquartile range). Regression models examining response differences for items of interest will be fit using respondent characteristics as control variables. Data will be analyzed in Stata v13.1 (StataCorp LP, College Station, TX, USA).

